# CG DevX CLI Workload Management Commands

This document provides a detailed guide on the Workload Management commands supported by the CG DevX CLI tool. These commands require that the CG DevX cluster is already provisioned and should be executed from the same machine used for cluster provisioning. For more information on cluster provisioning, please refer to the [setup command documentation](../README.md#setup).

## Create

The `workload create` command generates and configures resources required for the workload. It automatically pushes changes to a feature branch and creates a pull request (PR) for review and adjustment.

**Operations performed:**
- Creates configuration for the VCS module to establish Workload source code and GitOps repositories.
- Sets up the Secrets module for managing Workload secrets and RBAC.
- Configures Core Services like Image Registry and Code Quality projects.
- Initializes an ArgoCD Project AppSet for automated Workload service delivery.

**Usage:** This command can be executed using command-line arguments or environment variables.

### Command Arguments

| Name (short, full)                        | Type                                    | Description                                       |
|-------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| -wl, --workload-name                      | TEXT                                    | Name of the Workload                              |
| -wlrn, --workload-repository-name         | TEXT                                    | Workload repository name                          |
| -wlgrn, --workload-gitops-repository-name | TEXT                                    | Workload GitOps repository name                   |
| --verbosity                               | [DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR, CRITICAL] | Logging verbosity level, default CRITICAL         |

> **Note:** Use kebab-case for all names.

**Example:**

```bash
cgdevxcli workload create --workload-name your-workload-name \
                          --workload-repository-name your-workload-repository-name \
                          --workload-gitops-repository-name your-workload-gitops-repository-name

```

# Bootstrap

The workload bootstrap command sets up the folder structure and injects necessary configurations into repositories created by the create command.

Templates used:

Workload template repository: CG DevX Workload Template
Workload GitOps template repository: CG DevX Workload GitOps Template
These templates provide a predefined Docker file, CI/CD processes, release promotion process, and environment definitions.

Customization: You can fork and customize these templates and specify custom URLs and branches during execution.

# Command Arguments:

Name (short, full)	Type	Description
-wl, --workload-name	TEXT	Workload name
-wlrn, --workload-repository-name	TEXT	Workload repository name
-wlgrn, --workload-gitops-repository-name	TEXT	Workload GitOps repository name
-wltu, --workload-template-url	TEXT	URL of the workload repository template
-wltb, --workload-template-branch	TEXT	Branch of the workload repository template
-wlgu, --workload-gitops-template-url	TEXT	URL of the workload GitOps repository template
-wlgb, --workload-gitops-template-branch	TEXT	Branch of the workload GitOps repository template
-wls, --workload-service-name	TEXT	Name of the service within the workload
-wlsp, --workload-service-port	NUMBER	Service port, default 3000
--verbosity	[DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR, CRITICAL]	Logging verbosity level, default CRITICAL
Note: For all names use kebab-case.

# Example 

cgdevxcli workload bootstrap --workload-name your-workload-name \
                             --workload-repository-name your-workload-repository-name \
                             --workload-gitops-repository-name your-workload-gitops-repository-name \
                             --workload-service-name your-first-service-name \
                             --workload-service-port your-first-service-port


# Delete

The workload delete command removes the declarative configuration of resources required for a workload. It automatically pushes changes to a feature branch and creates a pull request for review.

Important:

This command deletes all configuration generated by the create command.
If executed with the --destroy-resources flag, it will also destroy all the resources created for the specific workload. This operation is irreversible and should be executed by the cluster owner only.

# Command Arguments:

Name (short, full)	Type	Description
-wl, --workload-names	TEXT	Workload name(s), can be multiple
--all	Flag	Flag to destroy all existing workloads
-wldr, --destroy-resources	Flag	Flag to destroy workload resources
-wlgrn, --workload-gitops-repository-name	TEXT	Workload GitOps repository name
--verbosity	[DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR, CRITICAL]	Logging verbosity level, default CRITICAL

Note: This process is irreversible.


**Command snippet**

Using command arguments

```bash
cgdevxcli cgdevxcli workload delete --workload-name your-workload-name
```

